web/src/content/help/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Quick Start'
section: 'help'
tags: ['introduction', 'setup']
order: 1
---

# Get started with Codebuff

## 1. Install Codebuff

Enter the following in your terminal, which could be inside your favorite IDE (VSCode, Cursor, etc.).

```bash
npm install -g codebuff
```

## 2. Navigate to your project directory

```bash
cd /path/to/your-repo
```

## 3. Run Codebuff

```bash
codebuff
```

Codebuff has multiple [modes](/docs/tips#modes): `lite` for quick tasks, `max` for complex work, and `plan` for planning without file changes. You can invoke them in the slash menu with `/mode:`.

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues during installation:

1. **Permission issues** — The best fix is to install Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm), which avoids permission problems entirely. Then run `npm install -g codebuff` again.

2. **Still Having Problems?**
   - On Mac/Linux, you can fix permissions with: `sudo chown -R $(whoami) $(npm config get prefix)/{lib/node_modules,bin,share}`
   - On Windows, run your terminal as administrator

[Troubleshooting](/docs/advanced#troubleshooting) | [Discord](https://codebuff.com/discord)

Commit message:

docs: fix /init command references (was init-agents)
- Update README.md, overview.mdx, creating-your-first-agent.mdx to use /init
- Add comprehensive /init documentation to quick-start.mdx
- Document what files /init creates and when to use it

web/src/content/help/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Quick Start'
section: 'help'
tags: ['introduction', 'setup']
order: 1
---

# Get started with Codebuff

## 1. Install Codebuff

Enter the following in your terminal, which could be inside your favorite IDE (VSCode, Cursor, etc.).

```bash
npm install -g codebuff
```

## 2. Navigate to your project directory

```bash
cd /path/to/your-repo
```

## 3. Run Codebuff

```bash
codebuff
```

Codebuff has multiple [modes](/docs/tips#modes): `lite` for quick tasks, `max` for complex work, and `plan` for planning without file changes. You can invoke them in the slash menu with `/mode:`.

## 4. Initialize Your Project (Optional)

Run the `/init` command inside Codebuff to set up project-specific files:

```
/init
```

### What `/init` Creates

| File/Directory | Purpose |
|---------------|----------|
| `knowledge.md` | A starter file for documenting your project's setup commands, architecture, and coding conventions. Codebuff reads this to understand your project better. |
| `.agents/types/` | TypeScript type definitions for creating custom agents. |

### When to Use `/init`

- **New projects** — Run `/init` once to create a `knowledge.md` file and get Codebuff familiar with your project.
- **Building custom agents** — The `.agents/types/` directory provides TypeScript types for full IntelliSense when creating agents.
- **Team onboarding** — Commit `knowledge.md` to your repo so Codebuff works consistently for all team members.

> **Note:** `/init` is safe to run multiple times. It skips files that already exist and only creates missing ones.

## Troubleshooting

If you run into issues during installation:

1. **Permission issues** — The best fix is to install Node.js using [nvm](https://github.com/nvm-sh/nvm) or [fnm](https://github.com/Schniz/fnm), which avoids permission problems entirely. Then run `npm install -g codebuff` again.

2. **Still Having Problems?**
   - On Mac/Linux, you can fix permissions with: `sudo chown -R $(whoami) $(npm config get prefix)/{lib/node_modules,bin,share}`
   - On Windows, run your terminal as administrator

[Troubleshooting](/docs/advanced#troubleshooting) | [Discord](https://codebuff.com/discord)
