web/src/content/agents/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: 'Overview'
section: 'agents'
tags: ['agents', 'multi-agent', 'overview']
order: 0
---

# Overview

## Why Multiple Agents?

Codebuff agents spawn other agents, share tools, and pass context between tasks:

- **Code Generation** - writes code
- **Review** - catches bugs and style issues
- **Research** - finds docs and examples
- **Planning** - breaks down requirements
- **File Discovery** - navigates codebases

## Programmatic Control

Control agents with TypeScript generator functions. Orchestrate workflows, branch on file contents, and make steps deterministic instead of hoping a prompt lands the right way.

## Built-in Agents

- [`codebuff/base`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/base) - Main coding assistant (orchestrates other agents)
- [`codebuff/editor`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/editor) - Code editing and file modifications
- [`codebuff/reviewer`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/reviewer) - Code review and feedback
- [`codebuff/thinker`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/thinker) - Deep thinking and problem analysis
- [`codebuff/researcher`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/researcher) - Web search and documentation lookup
- [`codebuff/file-picker`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/file-picker) - File discovery in your codebase
- [`codebuff/commander`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/commander) - Terminal command execution
- [`codebuff/code-searcher`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/code-searcher) - Search patterns in code files

Browse all available agents at the [Agent Store](https://codebuff.com/store).

## Agent Workflow

A typical call to Codebuff may result in the following flow:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[User Request] --> B{Task Type}

    B -->|Feature Development| C[Planning Agent]
    B -->|Bug Investigation| D[Thinker Agent]
    B -->|Code Refactoring| E[File Picker Agent]

    C --> F[File Picker Agent]
    D --> G[Research Agent]
    E --> H[Planning Agent]

    F --> I[Base Agent]
    G --> I
    H --> I

    I --> J[Reviewer Agent]
    J --> K[Complete]

    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style I fill:#f3e5f5
    style J fill:#e8f5e8
    style K fill:#fff3e0
```

### Example: Authentication System Refactoring

If you ask "refactor this authentication system", Codebuff might:

1. **File Picker** finds auth-related files
2. **Research** looks up best practices
3. **Planning** creates step-by-step plan
4. **Base** implements changes informed by the previous agents
5. **Reviewer** checks for security issues

### Agent Coordination

Agents coordinate through the `spawnerPrompt` field, which tells others when to spawn them. Agents can spawn others listed in `spawnableAgents`.

## Quick Start

```bash
codebuff init-agents
```

1. **[Customize existing agents](/docs/agents#customizing-agents)** - Modify prompts and tools
2. **[Create new agents](/docs/agents#creating-new-agents)** - Build specialized functionality
3. **[Reference guide](/docs/agents#agent-reference)** - Complete field documentation

Commit message:

docs: fix /init command references (was init-agents)
- Update README.md, overview.mdx, creating-your-first-agent.mdx to use /init
- Add comprehensive /init documentation to quick-start.mdx
- Document what files /init creates and when to use it

web/src/content/agents/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: 'Overview'
section: 'agents'
tags: ['agents', 'multi-agent', 'overview']
order: 0
---

# Overview

## Why Multiple Agents?

Codebuff agents spawn other agents, share tools, and pass context between tasks:

- **Code Generation** - writes code
- **Review** - catches bugs and style issues
- **Research** - finds docs and examples
- **Planning** - breaks down requirements
- **File Discovery** - navigates codebases

## Programmatic Control

Control agents with TypeScript generator functions. Orchestrate workflows, branch on file contents, and make steps deterministic instead of hoping a prompt lands the right way.

## Built-in Agents

- [`codebuff/base`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/base) - Main coding assistant (orchestrates other agents)
- [`codebuff/editor`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/editor) - Code editing and file modifications
- [`codebuff/reviewer`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/reviewer) - Code review and feedback
- [`codebuff/thinker`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/thinker) - Deep thinking and problem analysis
- [`codebuff/researcher`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/researcher) - Web search and documentation lookup
- [`codebuff/file-picker`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/file-picker) - File discovery in your codebase
- [`codebuff/commander`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/commander) - Terminal command execution
- [`codebuff/code-searcher`](/publishers/codebuff/agents/code-searcher) - Search patterns in code files

Browse all available agents at the [Agent Store](https://codebuff.com/store).

## Agent Workflow

A typical call to Codebuff may result in the following flow:

```mermaid
flowchart TD
    A[User Request] --> B{Task Type}

    B -->|Feature Development| C[Planning Agent]
    B -->|Bug Investigation| D[Thinker Agent]
    B -->|Code Refactoring| E[File Picker Agent]

    C --> F[File Picker Agent]
    D --> G[Research Agent]
    E --> H[Planning Agent]

    F --> I[Base Agent]
    G --> I
    H --> I

    I --> J[Reviewer Agent]
    J --> K[Complete]

    style A fill:#e1f5fe
    style I fill:#f3e5f5
    style J fill:#e8f5e8
    style K fill:#fff3e0
```

### Example: Authentication System Refactoring

If you ask "refactor this authentication system", Codebuff might:

1. **File Picker** finds auth-related files
2. **Research** looks up best practices
3. **Planning** creates step-by-step plan
4. **Base** implements changes informed by the previous agents
5. **Reviewer** checks for security issues

### Agent Coordination

Agents coordinate through the `spawnerPrompt` field, which tells others when to spawn them. Agents can spawn others listed in `spawnableAgents`.

## Quick Start

Start Codebuff and run the `/init` command to set up your project:

```bash
codebuff
```

Then inside the CLI:

```
/init
```

1. **[Customize existing agents](/docs/agents#customizing-agents)** - Modify prompts and tools
2. **[Create new agents](/docs/agents#creating-new-agents)** - Build specialized functionality
3. **[Reference guide](/docs/agents#agent-reference)** - Complete field documentation
